README.md, before:

# Particle partition entanglement of one dimensional spinless fermions

## https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10587

### Abstract:
We investigate the scaling of the Rényi entanglement entropies for a particle bipartition of interacting spinless fermions in one spatial dimension. In the Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid regime, we calculate the second Renyi entanglement entropy and show that the leading order finite-size scaling is equal to a universal logarithm of the system size plus a non-universal constant. Higher-order corrections decay as power-laws in the system size with exponents that depend only on the Luttinger parameter. We confirm the universality of our results by investigating the one dimensional <math>t−V</math> model of interacting spinless fermions via exact-diagonalization techniques. The resulting sensitivity of the particle partition entanglement to boundary conditions and statistics points to its utility in future studies of quantum liquids.

### Description

This repository includes all data and plotting scripts to generate the figures in https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10587.  All data was generated via exact diagonalization https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/tV_diagonalize

#### [PartitionSchematic (Figure 1)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/PartitionSchematic)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/PartitionSchematic/particle_partition.png" width=300px>


#### [EntanglementEntropies (Figure 2)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/EntanglementEntropies)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/EntanglementEntropies/entanglementEntropies.png" width=300px>

#### [FiniteSizeScaling	(Figure 3)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/FiniteSizeScaling)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/FiniteSizeScaling/finiteSizeScaling.png" width=300px>

#### [InteractionDependence (Figure 4)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/InteractionDependence/interactionDependence.png)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/InteractionDependence/interactionDependence.png" width=300px>

#### [EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize (Figure 5)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize/SvsN_choose_N.png" width=300px>

#### [DegeneracyEffect (Figure 6)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/DegeneracyEffect)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/DegeneracyEffect/degeneracyEffect.png?raw=true" width=300px>

Commit message:

added reference to forked ED code

README.md, after:

# Particle partition entanglement of one dimensional spinless fermions

## https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10587

### Abstract:
We investigate the scaling of the Rényi entanglement entropies for a particle bipartition of interacting spinless fermions in one spatial dimension. In the Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid regime, we calculate the second Renyi entanglement entropy and show that the leading order finite-size scaling is equal to a universal logarithm of the system size plus a non-universal constant. Higher-order corrections decay as power-laws in the system size with exponents that depend only on the Luttinger parameter. We confirm the universality of our results by investigating the one dimensional <math>t−V</math> model of interacting spinless fermions via exact-diagonalization techniques. The resulting sensitivity of the particle partition entanglement to boundary conditions and statistics points to its utility in future studies of quantum liquids.

### Description

This repository includes all data and plotting scripts to generate the figures in https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.10587.  All data was generated via exact diagonalization https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/tV_diagonalize using a code forked from [MelkoCollective/BH_diagonalize](https://github.com/MelkoCollective/BH_diagonalize).

#### [PartitionSchematic (Figure 1)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/PartitionSchematic)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/PartitionSchematic/particle_partition.png" width=300px>


#### [EntanglementEntropies (Figure 2)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/EntanglementEntropies)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/EntanglementEntropies/entanglementEntropies.png" width=300px>

#### [FiniteSizeScaling	(Figure 3)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/FiniteSizeScaling)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/FiniteSizeScaling/finiteSizeScaling.png" width=300px>

#### [InteractionDependence (Figure 4)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/InteractionDependence/interactionDependence.png)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/InteractionDependence/interactionDependence.png" width=300px>

#### [EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize (Figure 5)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/EntropyVsParticlePartitionSize/SvsN_choose_N.png" width=300px>

#### [DegeneracyEffect (Figure 6)](https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/tree/master/DegeneracyEffect)

<img src="https://github.com/DelMaestroGroup/PartEntFermions/blob/master/DegeneracyEffect/degeneracyEffect.png?raw=true" width=300px>
